The corruption of a City

Memories of a Visit
-The American sailors poured into manila off the U.S. Asiatic Fleet in November 1908, Crowding
into bars and brothels, a strem of shoeshine boy and calesa drivers following in their wake. 

The Cartoonist here shows one shoeshine boy asking another: " what did we profit from the 
P100,000 which the sailors visiting here are supposed to have spent? The other answers: 
"Nothing, They left us the dirt from their shoes."

Municipal Hygiene
-Determined to transform manila from tawdry Asiatic port into a model metropolis, the american
imposed strict sanitation regulations the angered the Menilenos

This cartoonist shows public reaction to the noxious odors from the excrement pail wagon  
that the serviced outside toilets, the chemical spraying of streets and houses to prevent 
disease was even more distasteful.


The Distant Province

Convenient Blindness
-is the translation of a satirical comment on the provincial's preoccupation with gambling. 
Outside the municipal hall provincial officials, their eyes glazed over with visions of Conant 
pesos, gamble at cards.

The caption says that in a province near Manila gambling is so widespread that everyone - 
the municipal president, provincial board and governor - do nothing but gamble.

Regattas in Batangas
-celebrates the sweeping victory of the nationalist candidates in the 1907 Assembly elections 
in Batangas Province. The winning candidates are (left to right) Eusebio Orense (Nacionalista, 
Second District), Gregorio Katigbak (Nacionalista, Third District), and 
Felipe Agoncillo (Independent, First District)


The Colonial Condition

The Doctor is Busy
- The Doctor Is Busy and so refuses to see a dying patient. 
In the midst of tying the talons on his fighting cock, the doctor is approached by a 
peasant who pleads: "My wife is dying, señor, save her, señor! To this plea the fat doctor, 
in hat with religious scapulary about his neck, replies: 
"Be quiet. You are bothering me. Don't you see that I am busy."

The cartoon satirizes the haughty, unsympathetic manner of Filipino doctors who, 
if this is any sample, felt that their medical degrees were license to command respect, 
not to render service.


A Mass is better
-mocks both the superstition of the Filipinos and the influence of the Spanish friars, 
particularly among devout women. Evidently frightened by one of the recurring 
cholera outbreaks of the period.


Uncle Sam and Little Juan

Uncle Sam - Americans
Juan - Filipino

Uncle Sam
-SHOWN AS A SATANIC FIGURE with grotesque nose and
broken teeth, Uncle Sam cackles: " 'Divide and rule, said Machiavelli, 
and since they are divided I shall naturally defeat them." 
Taking a non-partisan nationalist position, the Lipag Kalabaw cartoon of September 1907, 
just prior to the inauguration of the First Philippine Assembly, shows the parties hopelessly 
divided into three main groups.

The Parties Take Turns
-shows Uncle Sam doling out the meager patronage gruel left to the Filipinos, 
first to the Progresista (Federalista) Party members who have until now monopolized 
his largesse. With their victory in the July 1907 elections, the Nacionalistas are now 
waiting their turn for Uncle Sam's patronage gruel.



