Cyber Security - we should invest more on cybersecurity because it would be our 1st line of defense online.  protects all categories of data from theft and damage. 
This includes sensitive data, personally identifiable information (PII), protected health information (PHI), personal information, 
intellectual property, data, and governmental and industry information systems. 

Having advanced cyber defence programs and mechanisms in place to protect this data is crucial and in everyone’s interest. 
Everyone in society relies on critical infrastructure such as hospitals and other healthcare institutions, financial service programs, and power plants. 
We need these to keep our society running.

We all rely on the safety of our data and personal information. 
For example, when logging into an application or when filling in more sensitive data in digital healthcare systems. 
If these systems, networks, and infrastructures don't have the right protection in place, our data might fall into the wrong hands. 
In this sense, we're talking about protection in the form of technology and policies.

Telecommunications - Telecommunication is a part of our living and satisfies our daily needs. Now days, almost every adult has a phone.
Telecommunications is important to commerce as it creates a large amount of gross product for the world. 
It gives the world stability to business money and market. It also tighten community allowing quicker reaction time and information exchange 
Telecommunication is important to research and creation of other technologies. 
Sending and receiving of information is a factor that has allowed science to develop in all areas of the world.

Telecommunications creates an impact to everyday activities of the people all over the world. 
This is the reason why it is seen to play an important role in everyday live. 
It is one of the major reasons why the world is growing every day. It promotes a better awareness to the society and human life. 
Through telecommunication people are able to develop solutions and provide support to causes and problems across the world hence making it a closer and safer place to live in
